{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\cocoartf2639
\cocoatextscaling0\cocoaplatform0{\fonttbl\f0\fswiss\fcharset0 Helvetica;\f1\fswiss\fcharset0 Helvetica-Bold;}
{\colortbl;\red255\green255\blue255;\red27\green31\blue35;\red255\green255\blue255;\red13\green80\blue209;
}
{\*\expandedcolortbl;;\cssrgb\c14118\c16078\c18431;\cssrgb\c100000\c100000\c100000;\cssrgb\c3529\c41176\c85490;
}
\margl1440\margr1440\vieww17900\viewh13880\viewkind0
\pard\tx1133\tx1168\tx1700\tx2267\tx2834\tx3401\tx3968\tx4535\tx5102\tx5669\tx6236\tx6803\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs36 \cf0 \ul \ulc0 	About
\fs28 \
\
\pard\tx1133\tx1168\tx1700\tx2267\tx2834\tx3401\tx3968\tx4535\tx5102\tx5669\tx6236\tx6803\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0
\cf2 \cb3 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\ulnone VNDS-LOVE is a cross platform program that plays 
\f1\b V
\f0\b0 isual 
\f1\b N
\f0\b0 ovel 
\f1\b D
\f0\b0 ual 
\f1\b S
\f0\b0 creen formatted novels. Many famous visual novels have been ported to this format, which was designed for the Nintendo DS.
\f1\b \cb1  
\f0\b0 \cb3 VNDS is a specification designed for visual novels in order to run them on the Nintendo DS. Many of the original sources for the project no longer exist, but you can find further information on it {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://github.com/BASLQC/vnds/wiki"}}{\fldrslt \cf4 at this wiki page.}}\cb1  \cb3 VNDS novels only have a few commands. As such, they don't have any support for animations, videos, or other fancier graphical capabilites of newer visual novels. They support basic audio and image based storytelling.\

\f1\b \cb1 \

\f0\b0 \cb3 Windows, Mac, Linux, and the Nintendo Switch are all fully supported. Note that you need to have a Switch capable of running homebrew.\
\
\pard\tx1133\tx1168\tx1700\tx2267\tx2834\tx3401\tx3968\tx4535\tx5102\tx5669\tx6236\tx6803\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0

\fs36 \cf0 \cb1 \kerning1\expnd0\expndtw0 \ul 	Installation\
\
\pard\tx1133\tx1168\tx1700\tx2267\tx2834\tx3401\tx3968\tx4535\tx5102\tx5669\tx6236\tx6803\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0

\fs28 \cf2 \cb3 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\ulnone Please copy VNDS to your Applications folder or wherever you wish to install it. Depending on your system version, trying to run VNDS brings up an error message, which you can safely dismiss. Right-click on the VNDS application. This brings up a menu. Choose \'93Open\'94. If a dialog box opens that says this application can\'92t be run, select \'93Cancel\'94 and try again to right-click VNDS. Choose \'93Open\'94 again and a different dialog will ask if you\'92re sure you want to open the application. Choose \'93Open\'94 in this new dialog. VNDS should now be running.\
\
VNDS can\'92t run until games have been installed. You can use the included droplet to install games or you can install them manually. Games must be installed into ~/Library/Application Support/VNDS-LOVE/novels and must be uncompressed to work. Games can be downloaded from {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://github-wiki-see.page/m/BASLQC/vnds/wiki/List-of-VNDS-Visual-Novels"}}{\fldrslt https://github-wiki-see.page/m/BASLQC/vnds/wiki/List-of-VNDS-Visual-Novels}}.\
\pard\tx1133\tx1168\tx1700\tx2267\tx2834\tx3401\tx3968\tx4535\tx5102\tx5669\tx6236\tx6803\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \cb1 \kerning1\expnd0\expndtw0 \ul \

\fs36 	Requirements
\fs28 \
\pard\tx1133\tx1168\tx1700\tx2267\tx2834\tx3401\tx3968\tx4535\tx5102\tx5669\tx6236\tx6803\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \
\pard\tx1133\tx1168\tx1700\tx2267\tx2834\tx3401\tx3968\tx4535\tx5102\tx5669\tx6236\tx6803\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \ulnone Mac OS X version 10.7 is the minimum requirement. It\'92s been tested successfully to run on OS X 10.9.5, macOS 10.13.6 and macOS 12.6.1. It will work on both Intel and Apple Silicon (M1, M2, etc.) computers. Apple Silicon users may need to install Rosetta 2 to run it.\ul \
\
	
\fs36 Controls
\fs28 \
\ulnone \
\pard\tx1133\tx1168\tx1700\tx2267\tx2834\tx3401\tx3968\tx4535\tx5102\tx5669\tx6236\tx6803\li1130\fi-1131\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0

\f1\b \cf0 space
\f0\b0 	Advance - go to the next page\
\

\f1\b return	
\f0\b0 Advance - same as 
\f1\b space
\f0\b0 \

\f1\b \
M
\f0\b0 	Menu: Use this to save, load, return to the main menu, or to access VNDS settings. Navigate the menu with the arrow keys or use 
\f1\b J
\f0\b0  and 
\f1\b K
\f0\b0 . Use 
\f1\b return
\f0\b0  to confirm and 
\f1\b B 
\f0\b0 to cancel. On the music and sound menu page, use the left and right keys to raise and lower the volume.
\f1\b \
\
Y 	
\f0\b0 Skip: fast forward through the pages of the novel. Press 
\f1\b Y
\f0\b0  again to stop skipping.\
\

\f1\b Up
\f0\b0  and 
\f1\b Down	
\f0\b0 Directional controls: scroll through text history. You can also use 
\f1\b J
\f0\b0  and 
\f1\b K
\f0\b0  for this as well.\
\
	
\fs36 \ul Additional Links\

\fs28 \
{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://github.com/ajusa/VNDS-LOVE/"}}{\fldrslt \ulnone https://github.com/ajusa/VNDS-LOVE/}}\ulnone \
\
{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://docs.google.com/document/d/e/2PACX-1vRoZeD_wTko3X7FnARS2HtUerTUABwqnfnEJQpuEG9GQ0UvbnWFdbhvg7eEYsFNnMxTUJ7F9dupMCjQ/pub"}}{\fldrslt Google doc with installation instructions}}\
\
{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://discord.gg/q8wjpt2"}}{\fldrslt https://discord.gg/q8wjpt2}}\
}